= houdah -- Ruby lib for interacting with a Hadoop JobTracker / TaskTrackers

Houdah is a Ruby thrift lib for interfacing with a Hadoop jobtracker.

To install:
  gem install houdah

== Starting thrift server
Houdah expects that you have Cloudera's Hue[https://ccp.cloudera.com/display/SUPPORT/Downloads] installed and working.  As a part of the Hue installation, you will compile and install a thrift interface that runs when the jobtracker is running.  To be clear,
you do not have to run Hue in order for Houdah to work - you just need to make sure that the org.apache.hadoop.thriftfs.ThriftJobTrackerPlugin is working.

Houdah has been tested with Hue 1.1.0.  If you have it working with a later version of Hue, patches are welcome.

== Basic Usage
  require 'rubygems'
  require 'houdah'

  # args are host, optional port (9290 default), optional username (default "houdah"), and optional timeout
  client = Houdah::Client.new "192.168.1.1"

  # get list of running jobs
  client.jobs
  
  # get a list of failed jobs
  client.jobs(:failed)

  # get jobtracker name
  client.name

  # get percent mapped / reduced for all running jobs
  client.jobs.each { |j| puts "#{j.percent_mapped} mapped #{j.percent_reduced} reduced" }

  # get percent done for the most recent job
  client.jobs.first.percent_done

  # get the mapred.local.dir config variable for the most recent job
  puts client.jobs.first.config['mapred.local.dir']

  # get the hive query for the hive job running
  puts client.jobs.first.config['hive.query.string']

  # kill all jobs
  client.jobs.each { |j| j.kill! }

  # close the client connection
  client.close

  # Quick and dirty way to get the number of killed jobs.  The run class method takes care of closing the client.
  puts Houdah::Client.run("192.168.1.1") { |h| h.jobs(:killed).length }


== Bugs / Contact
Bugs and patches welcome at https://github.com/livingsocial/houdah.